 In this section, we're going to look at some tools and techniques, for returning XML formatted data, from SQL Server. So we'll start with a basic SELECT statement, very similar to ones that we've used in previous exercises. Where we're just selecting four columns from the HumanResources.Employee table. And if we execute that, we see the data returned to us in tabular format. Tabular format meaning rows and columns. If we would like this exact same data returned to us in XML format, instead of tabular format, we just need to add three little keywords at the end of the select statement.

So I'm going to add FOR XML RAW. Three separate words, a space in between each. Then I'll execute this again, and at first we just see a little snip of the XML. If we click on that, we'll get the full document. And we see that its the exact same data as before, just now formatted as XML. What was a row in the tabular format is now a line of XML. And all of the columns have been turned into XML attributes.

So we have the LoginID and JobTitle. If we scroll to the right, we see VacationHours and BirthDate. So all four columns came back as attributes. Notice that the element used on each line is row, r-o-w. If we close this, we'll look at a slightly different technique. Instead of FOR XML RAW, we can say FOR XML AUTO, a-u-t-o. When we execute that, we again get a XML snippet that we click on. And we see a very similar result, except the element in the XML is no longer a row, now it's the name of the table.

So HumanResources.Employee, the exact name of the table. Other than that, its the same. We still have all the data in attributes. So we'll close this. Now what if you don't want attributes, what if you would prefer to return the data as elements. Well we can do that also very easily. And that would be FOR XML PATH, p-a-t-h, path. We'll execute that, and this time we see all of the data came back as elements. Inside of a parent element called row, We have the four child elements LoginID, JobTitle, VacationHours, and BirthDate. 